Good day!
My name is Andrey Kulinich and I present the topic
The main concepts of marketing, marketing concept of management.
The concept of marketing was created in 1910.
It is a conglomerate of two words mark-getting, that is, to take the market, to get the market.
It is believed that the first marketing study was officially published
in 1901, and it was a report of the Industrial Commission on Sales of Agricultural Products in the United States.
In 1926, the American Association of Marketing and Advertising was created.
On its basis, the American Society of Marketing was formed in the future.
In the 1940s, the first systematization of marketing, marketing approach to enterprises appeared.
In the 1950s, a term that has survived almost unchanged to this day,
that is, marketing mix, appeared.
In 1968, the first books on consumer behavior were published.
If you look at the history of marketing in the Soviet Union and Russia,
then for the first time it was officially discussed in the 1980s,
when a course of marketing was conducted in the program of some universities.
In 1995, the first standard of teaching marketing appeared in universities.
Since then, it has undergone certain changes,
but this profession still exists, and our universities train specialists in this field.
There are a huge number of marketing departments.
According to various estimates, there are from 1,500 to 2,500 of them.
In fact, there are much more, but we just could not count them.
Marketing is a science of the formation of differences that customers perceive and are ready to pay for them.
This is one of the definitions.
Marketing is a social management process,
with the help of which individual persons and groups satisfy their needs
and needs through the creation of goods and consumer values,
and the exchange of them.
This definition belongs to Philip Kotler.
If we look at the official definition of marketing,
then it is a process of planning and implementation of the concept of price formation,
promotion and distribution of ideas, goods and services,
for the exchange of goods and services, which satisfies the goals of individual people and enterprises.
This definition belongs to the American Association of Marketing,
which is considered the legislator of fashion in this industry.
Marketing has changed, its definitions have changed.
Initially, there was no need to promote goods,
because demand on the market exceeded the offer.
Remember the early 90s, when there were tickets for food, clothes, and other consumer goods.
Why was there a need to promote products?
All that our enterprises produced was actually available to its consumer.
Nevertheless, at some point demand was equal to the offer,
and the winners were those manufacturers and shops
that were primarily focused on the quality of sales and intensification of sales.
The situation is changing.
At present, demand is less than the offer.
Accordingly, there is some overproduction and competition for us, consumers.
The market is changing.
The market is changing, it is more and more focused on the consumer,
and this is reflected in the increase of the service,
in the creation of new goods that are more convenient for us and meet our needs.
What's next?
Next is social orientation.
We'll talk about it in the next moment.
Let's talk again about the key stages in which marketing has developed.
First of all, the enterprises that were focused on the improvement of production have won.
Namely, the reduction of the cost of production and quality management.
Some enterprises are still at this stage and are not developing further.
Why? Because there is no need for this.
For example, if you are a supplier of oil and gas,
where the consumer does not perceive the difference,
where it is difficult to improve, and there is no need to improve the quality of these products,
they meet the standards,
but the one who has more production sites and saves on a large scale wins.
And those who can do it cheaper.
Nevertheless, after in other industries, such as food, clothes, cars, industrial equipment,
enterprises learned to produce equally well and equally cheaply,
new approaches and new concepts were necessary.
The concept of marketing oriented to the improvement of goods has appeared.
Good goods are not needed in advertising.
This phrase refers to this stage.
Why? Because if you release a good and high-quality product,
which is in demand by your clients, which has no analogues,
we pass the information about it from word of mouth.
And it means that the product will promote itself on the market
solely due to its consumer characteristics.
But the characteristics that we, as consumers, need are limited.
Their quantity is limited.
And after some time, many goods begin to be absolutely similar to each other.
We do not see an advantage in them.
They have the same technical characteristics, other consumer qualities.
Where to go next?
Those who were oriented to intensify sales.
At this stage, such a marketing tool as advertising was needed.
The one who advertises more, sells more.
We faced this in the late 90s and early 2000s.
We were fed with advertising, but it was the main tool for promoting goods.
We bought, among other things, goods that were known,
which were actually imposed on us.
Here we did not ask the opinion of the consumer,
whether he liked the product, whether he liked the advertising.
We were pushing the opinion of the product in the head,
if I may say so, of the consumer,
and educated cohorts of active aggressive sellers.
The one who will run more, will sell more.
It worked.
But now, when we have something to choose from,
when many manufacturers and suppliers have reached perfection in the field of advertising,
when there is no way to increase advertising budgets,
and their efficiency is decreasing every day,
new ideas and approaches are needed.
We avoid pressure and choose those goods,
which are more in line with our needs.
It means that manufacturers, suppliers and sellers
should take into account the interests of our consumers,
and make goods and services that are in line with our needs.
It is impossible to create goods and services that are good for everyone at the same time.
This is marketing of the marketing niche segments.
This is targeted marketing.
It is the orientation of the consumer.
It is important to understand what the consumer wants,
what he wants, what he is ready to pay for,
and offer him this.
High service, orientation of the consumer,
things are not cheap.
The concept of raising prices or making a profit is related to this.
But our prosperity is growing.
We are ready to pay for the goods and products that are convenient for us.
What is next? The world does not stop.
Some Western countries and developed countries
are already living on the social and ethical concept of marketing.
When we choose goods that are more in line with our social status,
we wear suits, we buy cars that are in line with our position in society.
Ethical marketing is another side of the same coin.
When there are goods that are of the same quality,
not expensive, with the same characteristics,
known and convenient for us as consumers,
we look for additional reasons to choose one or another product.
Accordingly, at a high level of prosperity,
we choose goods that are more environmentally friendly.
That is, when they are made, the least environmental damage was done.
We choose goods of those manufacturers
that comply with social and ethical norms in relation to their employees.
We do not use, for example, child labor,
or the proportion of women and men in the management staff.
The proportion is approximately equal.
It is important to understand that the type of competition
in which you live changes according to the definition of marketing.
Pure competition is quite rare.
Pure competition is associated with stock markets,
when there are many buyers and sellers,
and buyers do not see significant differences
except for the price in these goods.
We have already talked about such goods.
Oil, gas, sugar, flour in wholesale supplies
must correspond to a certain cost.
No more, no less.
And why should I pay more for the same goods as a buyer?
No, I will not.
This is pure competition.
That is, there is a struggle exclusively at the expense of the price.
Monopolistic competition is not a monopoly.
I ask you not to confuse.
Monopolistic competition implies the presence of a large number of buyers
and a large number of sellers.
But buyers see significant differences in goods.
They perceive them differently and evaluate them differently.
For example, cars.
There are quite a lot of manufacturers and quite a lot of buyers.
But we understand or can explain to ourselves
why BMW cars are more expensive than AvtoVAZ cars.
We see these differences and are ready to pay various money.
In this case, AvtoVAZ and Mercedes cars do not directly compete with each other.
They have different consumers, both in terms of needs and in terms of profitability.
If we talk about competition, then most likely BMW cars
compete primarily with Mercedes, Audi, but not with a low price segment.
That is, monopolistic competition implies a large number of buyers and sellers,
but buyers see significant differences in goods.
Oligopolistic competition implies the presence of 2-3 largest players in the market.
For example, 3 large companies own 50-60% of the market.
This means that there is no competition.
They are about the same in strength and financial resources.
And the main or smaller players are more likely to be guided by their behavior.
It is these players who dictate the main conditions of competition,
the main rules, the values, channels of promotion,
and in fact have the opportunity to squeeze out small competitors.
Oligopolistic competition implies that there is no competition.
Moreover, sudden changes from the side of the largest players
can lead to a price war and the winner will not be in equal conditions and resources.
They understand this perfectly and try to coordinate their actions in one way or another,
to develop as smoothly as possible.
As a rule, the whole world comes to the mature stages of the market life cycle in the case of oligopolistic competition.
That is, when the market is already stable or is declining.
In Russia, unfortunately, the situation is a little different.
This is due to non-standard development.
When it was possible to acquire a whole industry,
and they were concentrated in the hands of a small number of owners, a small number of enterprises.
Therefore, the oligopolistic stage in the whole world, as a rule,
corresponds to the orientation of the consumer or social and ethical marketing.
In Russia, oligopolistic competition can exist in the situation of the orientation to production or to the improvement of the product.
And you don't have to expect a significant change in the offer from their side.
A pure monopoly.
One seller.
No one to choose from.
You can give such examples yourself.
Gazprom, Rao ES, and so on.
It is important to understand that marketing changes the perception and the pursuit of the owner.
Initially, the concept was oriented to the product out.
That is, pushing the product to the market.
We produce, we impose it.
But at some point, there were a lot of products that we were trying to impose.
The efficiency was not so high.
And the market has changed.
The concept of product in has appeared.
We attract the market.
We create goods that interest the customers, so that they come to us and leave their money.
There was an exchange of goods, money, goods.
But now we see vivid examples of invest-in.
When companies earn not by selling goods or services,
but they earn by placing their shares or bonds on the market.
For example, the sale of a small package of shares to Wimbledon
brought much more income to the owners than the company's profit over 10 years.
That is, now you can create an attractive company for investors,
but not earn on consumers,
but earn by selling or trading shares on the market or selling to a strategic investor.
Accordingly, the object of marketing is not a consumer, but a potential investor.
It is important to understand that the development of marketing affects the development of marketing in the company of a large circle of interested parties.
It is important to understand that the main marketers in the company are the owners and the CEO.
They determine how the company perceives the client, what it is ready to do for him and for what money.
Top managers can be considered as interested parties,
who, through their vision, pass the orders of the managers and give them down.
They manage the company's activities.
Also, hired managers, hired employees, suppliers, buyers, partners, local authorities,
which either limit or promote competition, also influence the marketing in the company.
So, we have considered a number of conditions in which marketing exists.
Please note that when competition, monopoly, oligopoly, pure monopoly, and the concept of marketing intersect,
different conditions of its existence arise.
And the definition of marketing for each cell, for each intersection will be different.
And if we take into account that the group of interested parties, which we have listed above, also influences the definition of marketing,
then in these conditions, the definition of marketing can be an infinite number.
Here are some of them.
Marketing is advertising, promoting sales and imposing goods on the buyer.
A complex of aggressive sales tools.
Isn't it true?
It is clearly visible at what stage of development the company is in terms of marketing.
Marketing is a complex of tools for market analysis, such as methods of forecasting sales volumes,
imitation models, various market researches, which are used for a deeper scientific approach to analysis of demand and demand.
An interesting definition.
What stage of marketing does it correspond to in your opinion?
There can be many definitions, some of them are funny.
Marketing is all and all is marketing.
Marketing is all that a consumer thinks about the company, said Peter Drucker.
Marketing is all that managers do not want to do on sales, do not have time or cannot, as Igor Ryman said.
Think about it.
And what is the definition of marketing of your company?
Give a short definition.
Marketing is...
Whatever you call a boat, it will swim.
This is what marketing is.
Let's get back to what influences the marketing of a company.
Pay attention to the slide with the triad of Philip Kotler.
Philip Kotler presented the marketing of a company as a triangle, at the top of which is the leader.
I repeat once again that the main marketer in a company, the one who sets the tone, is the leader.
Accordingly, in terms of angles, it is internal marketing, that is, the side between the leader and the staff.
This is how the leader conveys his thoughts, the vision of the market, the understanding of the buyer, the understanding of the market strategy of the company.
The second side is the connection between the leader and the client.
This is the marketing that the company conducts on the market.
If the leader does not understand who his clients are, what they want, then the marketing will be ineffective.
It is important to understand that the staff that implements the strategy or vision of the leader is also an important component of the marketing.
The way the staff understands the tasks and goals that are set by the leader, they implement through the relationship with the client.
This is how they treat the client.
In my opinion, the best representation of marketing in a company belongs to Jacques-Jean Lambin.
Pay attention to the slide.
Jacques-Jean Lambin says that marketing is three main aspects.
First of all, it is the business philosophy, how you conduct it, what are the values of the company, what are the values for the market you create.
This is exactly what the leader transmits inside the company.
This is a set of marketing tools, methods, approaches, techniques, algorithms, tables.
This is what is most understandable in marketing, but it does not work without philosophy.
They are either a continuation or a tool.
The third important thing for effective marketing is marketing as a function of management in the company.
Marketing should have the power to plan, organize, motivate, execute and control the tasks set.
Marketing should be a tool, it should be a force.
Marketing is divided into two levels.
There are two levels of marketing.
Strategic marketing and tactical marketing.
Strategic marketing is usually related to the analysis of the needs of the market, segmentation of the market,
that is, dividing it into parts, how the company's proposals are perceived in relation to the company's competitiveness,
highlighting the most promising segments in which the company will operate in the future.
This is the analysis of competition and participation in the development of the company's strategy.
Tactical marketing or operational marketing is a choice as a goal of the market segments determined at the stage of strategic marketing.
The definition of a marketing mix is the definition of the marketing budget,
the promotion of the product to the market and the execution and control of the goals set at the stage of strategic planning.
So, marketing.
If we talk about the functions of marketing, then the main functions are the formation of a production strategy,
support of the sales department in promoting the product,
supply of information about the situation in the market to the company's managers to make decisions about the company's actions,
coordination of the actions of the company's main departments in order to meet the needs of the clients.
Why has marketing become relevant now?
First of all, it is about increasing the competition.
We have already discussed that at some point the balance in the market was broken and the demand was lower than the supply.
This means that it is necessary to better convey and better meet the needs of the client in what you do.
The needs of the client are changing.
Our welfare is growing.
We have new desires, new consumer experience, and the company needs to follow its consumers.
Our preferences are changing.
We can afford to buy something better.
It is important to understand that today we are competing with you on the global market.
Already now, despite the fact that we are in Russia.
Look around.
There are products produced all over the world on the shelves of our stores.
They are already available.
This means that we are competing with the best companies that come to Russia from all over the world.
The availability of information.
The Internet has turned the world upside down.
Each consumer can become an expert in a particular area, in a particular product that you offer.
To do this, you just need to visit the Internet forums, read analytical notes, tests, and research reports.
The reduction of the profitability of the product makes you think about how to survive the company.
But the client's income is actually the only tool for making a profit for the company.
So, marketing starts to play a role here.
If we define the goal of marketing according to Peter Drucker, it is to make the efforts for the profit unnecessary.
The goal of marketing is to make the client know so much that the product or service exactly meets his requirements or sells itself.
Let's look at some of the main terms that marketing uses.
First of all, it is a need.
It is a feeling of a person's shortcoming in something.
A need is a need that has taken a specific form in accordance with the cultural level and individuality of a person.
Let me explain.
For example, in the case of thirst.
It is a need.
A need is when we want to realize it.
It is a need to satisfy a specific form of thirst.
But depending on your cultural level, income level, location, nationality, you can satisfy it in different ways.
You can drink water from under the tap, drink mineral water, tea, coffee, and so on.
We can satisfy the same need in different ways.
Requests.
The needs of a person, which are supported by his purchasing ability.
Our application to the store has a need, a need, and the necessary funds to satisfy this need.
The product.
Everything that can be offered on the market to satisfy the needs and requirements.
Services.
Products.
The combination of products and services.
Nowadays, people talk about impressions, like about a product.
For example, imagine yourself with a cup of coffee near the Eiffel Tower.
To see Paris and die.
This is an impression that can be offered to you as a product.
The market.
The combination of potential buyers of a product or service.
The market is defined by both manufacturers and buyers.
The market is a division of something global, partly according to certain criteria.
The markets can be local, the market of a product, the market of a certain circle of consumers, and so on.
The market is a combination of potential customers.
Demand.
A specific need, supported by the purchasing ability.
We have already talked about this.
There are several types of demand.
First of all, negative or non-existent.
Zero.
Hidden demand, which is not obvious, which is not shown by consumers.
Falling demand, when the consumption of a particular product or service is reduced.
Irregular demand or seasonal.
A vivid example is a Christmas tree toy.
Full-fledged demand.
Stable demand for a particular product.
Excessive demand, when demand exceeds the supply and leads to a shortage of a product.
Irrational demand.
When there are no rational motives explaining the consumption of a particular product.
It is important to understand that the market is currently divided into industrial and consumer.
Either B2B, business to business, or B2C, business to customer.
Pay attention to the slide.
Business to business market is usually associated with the manufacturers of goods, intermediaries, and stores.
That is, when what is purchased is used either for the production of goods, services, or is later resold.
B2C is a market where goods are supplied and sold for subsequent acquisition.
Let's take a look at a minibus that can be found on two markets.
If I buy a minibus for myself, for my family, to travel, to go fishing.
I purchased it on the B2C market.
That is, I am a consumer.
I do not use it as a means of production.
At the same time, if I am a private entrepreneur, I have a number of trading points and a minibus is necessary for me to transport goods.
In this case, I purchased it on the B2B market.
That is, for subsequent production of goods and services.
The demand for goods of production consumption depends on a number of factors.
But it is important for you to understand, and the microeconomists should have considered this,
that the demand for any goods, including industrial consumption, is actually determined by the demand on the B2C market.
That is, we, buying goods for our own consumption, stimulate the development of all other industries.
It is important to understand what is the market capacity in marketing.
That is, the market capacity on which we work.
And here are two types of capacity.
The real market capacity is the actual sales volume of the product or service.
That is, the volume of the paymentable demand under certain conditions.
That is, if we say that last year consumers purchased a couple of billion rubles of tourist services in the money equivalent,
that is, this is the real market capacity.
But at the same time, the second parameter is the potential market capacity.
That is, the maximum sales volume in a market situation,
when all potential consumers purchase goods based on the maximum possible level of consumption.
That is, everyone has the opportunity and the need for these goods, and there is an opportunity to pay for the purchase of these services.
The difference between the real market capacity and the potential market capacity is called the market potential.
The market potential will be important for us, including for determining the life stage of the market,
either goods or services, in subsequent analyzes.
Several types of marketing are highlighted.
First of all, this is mass marketing.
When you offer the same type, the same characteristics for all consumers, for the same price, goods.
That is, you do not select target groups.
This type of marketing is possible under low competition,
when you have no competitors and you can not think about the characteristics of the product for specific consumers,
or in the case of exchange goods, where it is impossible to set distinctive characteristics of the product.
Target marketing.
In this case, we aim to influence a certain target group of consumers,
offering them goods, focusing on certain of its characteristics.
Marketing at the level of market niches.
In this case, we are talking about small groups of consumers,
for whom high loyalty and specific consumption are characteristic.
For example, Harley Davidson motorcycles are nothing more than marketing at the level of market niches.
That is, consumers of this product feel the need not only in the means of transportation,
but also in the image of the purchased product.
At the same time, the capacity of the segment or niche,
on which Harley Davidson operates in relation to the entire motorcycle market is extremely small.
Micromarketing, or marketing of one person.
This is, as many experts say, the future of marketing.
That is, in the near future, all goods and services will be produced for the needs of one individual.
They will be customized, adapted, or generally produced for us.
We are already working in this market, and we face similar offers.
In particular, when you buy a car, you buy it for yourself.
That is, you have the opportunity to build the configuration that is most convenient for you from individual offers.
Marketing is extremely important.
In highly competitive and developed markets,
you can notice that the number of people in companies that are related to marketing often prevails over the rest of the staff.
Pay attention to the slide.
For example, Epsilon.
The total number of employees in the company is 840.
The company is engaged in data-based marketing,
that is, it collects information about consumers, enterprises, and offers them to those who need it.
The total number is 840 people.
Of these, 230 people are related to marketing.
Yes, the figure is slightly higher.
Why? Because in the West, the number of sales representatives is often higher than the number of people in marketing.
At the same time, it is important to understand that sales are nothing more than a tool for promotion.
Sales are the most effective tool for delivering information to the consumer.
However, there is one drawback.
It is the most expensive.
Look at the table.
In almost all companies, the number of people involved in marketing is extremely large.
It takes up a predominant share.
Would Western companies pay for functions, for work that is not necessary?
Of course not.
This figure is due to the fact that marketing specialists will soon be scarce in our market,
because competition is growing and there is a need for a number of new specific tasks that are solved by marketing.
What tasks is marketing solving?
Pay attention to the slide.
Regular marketing.
By and large, the functions of marketing, if you consider in a large scale,
are, first of all, the analysis of competitors,
the analysis of consumers,
the assessment of the external environment and the dynamics of its changes,
the forecasting of changes in the external environment,
the analysis of the effectiveness of your own actions in the market,
the decryption of sales results and the issuance of recommendations,
the development of adequate solutions for changing the external environment and the internal environment based on the data of the analysis.
It is important to understand that you can add functions related to promotion,
the creation of new products.
These are all the functions of marketing.
I repeat, marketing is everything that the consumer sees.
This is what he thinks about the company.
But this suggests that marketing imposes a higher responsibility on itself.
Modern marketing is changing.
In particular, if we follow the thoughts of George Day,
then it currently highlights a number of transitions.
More offers and less differentiation.
There are too many offers and it is extremely difficult to distinguish.
We will talk about positioning a little later.
We will say that there are certain limitations for positioning,
which do not allow you to distinguish now.
Accordingly, it is necessary to look for other ways to promote your products and services.
More global and less local.
We said that we are already competing with global brands.
We are competing with transnational corporations due to the effect of scale,
greater experience, and they are often more effective.
This is one of the trends of our modern reality.
More competition and more cooperation.
Paradox.
But it is really so.
Western companies, for example, the most popular competitors, Sony and Philips,
combine their efforts to develop standards.
New digital standards, but at the same time they compete for consumers.
We can come across interesting facts,
when, for example, notebooks are produced by several manufacturers at the same production.
But, cooperating at this stage, they aggressively compete for us.
More relationships and less transactions.
Simple human relations, constant contact,
do not forget about this,
become important.
More thinking and reaction.
And less options made and sold.
Why?
Because in connection with all the earlier-sounding transitions,
there are fewer opportunities for manoeuvres.
The market forgives your mistakes less,
and you need to spend more time to reflect on your past mistakes
and look for new guaranteed options,
or the most guaranteed options for success.
If we follow the ideas of Fred Versema,
competition is spreading very actively.
It is important to understand that with the development of the Internet,
with the development of social networks and blockchains,
all secrets become common.
And that means that the one who implements faster is more protected,
and not the one who hides his secrets better.
It is almost impossible to hide them.
Innovations are universal and fast-repeatable.
If you can come up with something,
then the opportunity to use your innovation is extremely small.
For example,
competitors can reproduce any new innovative product,
and this is confirmed by Western specialists,
in particular, by Philips,
in just three months.
Extremely fast.
Information is overwhelming and devalued.
Absolutely right.
Go to a bookstore.
You are not tormented by depression
because so much literature has not yet been read.
But it is because of its quantity
that we often find it difficult to make decisions.
We do not have time to get acquainted with all of it,
and services that allow you to navigate
and extract the most important information
become more and more important.
Light growth leads to great difficulties.
And it is true.
A vivid example is Toyota.
It has grown quite actively
and moved in the rating of car manufacturers
and has now taken the first place.
But light growth has caused
negative attitude of consumers.
Having become number one,
Toyota has lost its unique character for consumers.
It has become mass-produced.
And immediately complaints began
about the quality of the product,
the lack of competitive advantages.
The consumption of consumers is less than in the past.
And it is true.
We will talk about the growth of our pace of life later.
It means that companies also need to change
the speed of responding to consumer requests.
It is important to increase the speed of providing services
and supplying goods.
Marketing Mix
Marketing Mix allows you to better imagine
or to break a huge elephant's task
into small details
and formulate your market proposal.
Pay attention to the slide.
I drew a marketing mix in the form of a puzzle.
It is really like that.
You make a puzzle.
And you need to create a unique picture for the consumer.
The concept of marketing mix appeared in the 1950s
in the university environment.
Western professors thought it was easier to explain
to students the success of a particular product.
But this division of the product into individual components
was so attractive
that it was easier to analyze your market proposal
and it became a business model.
And it has remained unchanged to this day.
The marketing mix consists of four components.
The first one is a product.
It is what you offer to the market.
The second one is the price of the product.
How much do you offer it to the consumer?
The third one is the distribution channels
or the place where you distribute the product.
The fourth one is the promotion.
The last one is the P, which is a part of the classic.
It is how you promote a product to the market.
The marketing mix is a set of variable marketing factors
that companies use to create a desired response
from the target market.
4P is an acronym.
Product, Place, Price, Promotion.
In fact, there were attempts to reproduce
and teach other ways of division of the task
of your proposal.
In particular, the not very modified 4P
is present in Jacques-Jean Lambin.
He highlights the strategy of products,
distribution, price formation and communication.
At the same time, the English 4C includes
the consumer,
convenience and availability,
including distribution channels,
cost, consumer costs,
a broader understanding,
communication, how you deliver.
Please note that they are not very different.
It is not very unique to present
the elements of your proposal to the client.
If you are engaged in services,
then three more P are important for you.
People.
Service depends on the people you provide.
In particular, the Moscow retail has encountered
an interesting fact.
The one who stands at the counter
seriously affects the loyalty of the consumer
and the desire to visit the store.
The attempt to replace the sellers
of the Slavic locality with immigrants
led to the stores experiencing a shortage of consumers.
And we had to quickly overhaul this situation.
We want to buy similar ones.
Physical evidence.
Physical presence.
It is extremely important,
because the consumer evaluates the service
by the appearance of your office.
Imagine, you go to a bank
that is a car on the outskirts of the city.
And in front of you is a banker
who manages this bank in shorts,
crumpled T-shirt and flip-flops.
Will such a bank trust you?
Unlikely.
Therefore, those who provide services
try to convince the consumer
that their service is of high quality.
This is influenced by the appearance of the staff,
the appearance of the office,
the appearance of the signage and advertising.
The service is unstable in time,
the service is unstable in terms of its repetition,
because it is provided by people.
And here is a very important element.
The stabilization of the quality of the service
is the management of processes.
Processes.
This is the third additional P,
which is important for the company that provides services.
If you work in the B2B market,
or sell expensive goods,
long-term goods,
then another P plays an important role for you.
Personal selling.
We talked about
this is an extremely expensive way
of communicating with consumers.
The salary at the moment,
or the cost of salary,
occupies the first or second place
in the budget of expenses
of almost any Russian company.
But in a number of markets,
B2B or industrial markets,
when selling expensive goods,
it is the sellers
who are able to implement your product.
If you need to check your offer
quickly enough,
then it is useful to use a combination.
4P plus 3C.
No, not English C in this case,
but additional elements.
These are customers,
competitors,
company.
Pay attention to the slide.
You can draw a table,
where you have columns,
elements of the marketing complex,
product, price, promotion, place,
lines,
customers, competitors, company.
At the intersection,
you get cells
where you can write down questions.
Let's see.
Clients.
What product do your clients want to get?
At what price do they want to buy it?
Where do they usually buy it?
In which channels of sale?
What kind of advertising are they ready to accept?
What arguments do they need?
Competitors.
Will your competitors allow you
and will you be able to differ
to offer this product to the market?
Will you be able to offer a competitive price?
Will your competitors allow you
to do this?
Will you be able to use
this data from the household channels?
Will you be noticeable
in this way of advertising?
The last one is the company.
Are you able to produce such a product?
Will you be able to sell it at a price?
What are the requirements of the consumer?
Are you able to get into the channels?
Are you able to use this way of promotion?
The marketing complex
or what you offer to the market
is influenced by several factors.
First of all, it's the consumers.
Or the orientation of the consumer
to make a purchase.
Second, the dynamics of the industry development,
behavior of sellers and retail traders.
As a rule, their behavior determines
the life cycle and the conditions of competition.
Third, the position and behavior of competitors.
If you are a big player,
these are the conditions of competition.
If you are a small player, then the other conditions.
Fourth, the behavior of the authorities
and the control over the marketing.
Let's take a closer look at how
the external environment can influence
your marketing complex.
A simple example.
The legislative restriction of the use
of advertising channels
for beer, cigarettes,
strong alcoholic beverages
has greatly limited their ability
to convey information
about their products to us.
Accordingly, they have to change
their marketing complex.
For cigarette manufacturers,
the only way to convey information
is the channel of the HRK,
hotels, cafes, restaurants.
That is, where we rest.
If you look at the position of players,
being a large player,
you can dictate your conditions to the market.
You need to spend less than a percent of your budget
on advertising
to remain the most noticeable.
Smaller players need to focus
either on certain channels of information,
or look for alternatives
to better convey information.
Pay attention to the external environment.
Pay attention to the slide.
The marketing complex is always a compromise.
The marketing complex can be represented
or formulated as a perfect product.
We ourselves want to get
a high-quality product.
We want to get a well-known product.
Sometimes we talk about products
that correspond to our image and social status.
We want to get products that are available for purchase.
It is desirable to purchase it
either from home or from work,
when there is no need to go somewhere for it.
You can assume that this is a long-term demand product,
from a warehouse, without long waiting.
And the product is not cheap,
it is not affordable.
We can afford it.
Formulating perfect products.
Unfortunately, there is no perfect product at the moment,
and we always have to look for a compromise.
Pay attention to the fact that the leaders of the product categories,
for example, the category of alcohol,
cigarettes,
and any other products,
are always high-quality products,
we, as consumers,
are familiar with a large amount of advertising,
with a well-known brand.
These are products with a wide range of distribution,
that is, they are present in many trading points,
they are available.
But these are never the cheapest products.
Think about it.
You can't name
any leader of the category,
which is both the cheapest product.
Why?
Because creating a high-quality product,
investing in promotion,
is the expense you had to bear.
Accordingly, they did not affect the price.
But this does not mean that there can be only such products on the market.
There can be products,
known,
available for sale,
at an affordable price.
But
the manufacturer had to, most likely,
act as a product.
If we add other elements of the marketing complex,
there can be an infinite number of variations.
Which one to choose?
In this case, you always need to pay attention,
first of all, to the client.
Because the client is your goal.
And you should base your needs on the marketing complex.
All marketing is, by and large, two questions.
Just two questions.
Who will buy from me?
And why me?
Simple questions, but it's hard to find an answer.
When forming a marketing complex,
as we said, you need to pay attention to the external environment.
Namely,
to the legislative base
and competitors.
What will they allow you to do?
Will you be different in the competitive environment?
You need to rely on the capabilities of your company.
Are you able to do this?
Do you have experience?
What is important?
Pay attention to the bottom half of the slide.
It is important that this marketing complex
provides economic benefits for the company.
That is, it has passed the financial and economic analysis.
Because the activity of your company is aimed at making a profit.
Instead of a conclusion,
pay attention to the slide.
The chart you have studied in the economy.
In finance.
By changing the elements of the marketing complex,
you change the parameters such as the total income.
The total costs.
That means you need to choose them in such a way
to provide both the benefits for the client and the profit for the company.
Let's take a look at a small example of the marketing complex.
Some tasks.
The first one.
The direct costs for a unit of the product of a new product are $10.
The indirect annual costs are $38,000.
That is, the product is transferred from the residual costs of the business.
And the indirect costs of the business.
The lower price limit is determined as $16 per unit.
At the same time, the upper price limit can be $24 per unit.
The management is ready to allocate you
from $10,000 for each of the directions
to $50,000 for the advertising and personal sales budget.
That is, the advertising budget can vary from $10,000 to $50,000.
You can see this condition on the slide.
And there is also a calculation of the point of no loss.
The formula for calculating the point of no loss, which we talked about.
Pay attention to the slide.
We have transferred the task conditions in the form of a tree of solutions.
In particular, the price can vary from $24 to $16 per unit.
Two branches.
The costs for personal sales can vary from $10,000 to $50,000.
This is another branch.
And the costs for advertising from $10,000 to $50,000.
Accordingly, we get 5 points with certain characteristics.
Read the coordinates.
We can also calculate the point of no loss for each of the points.
That is, at what volume of sales we will start to pay and get a profit.
What do you think?
At what point should we stop in this case?
No, not at the lowest point of no loss.
The point of no loss is given as a reference.
We should focus on it with other equals.
Other equals are the conditions under which the product will be successful in the market.
Why? Because each condition is specific to a particular market.
Pay attention.
The price is $16, the costs for personal sales are $10, the costs for advertising are $10.
As a rule, this is a highly competitive market for consumer goods at the final stage of life.
Consumers know the product well and such elements as personal sales or advertising are not important for them.
They will choose based solely on the cost.
The point is $16, $10, $50.
That is, $16 is the price, $10 is the costs for personal sales, $50 is the costs for advertising.
This is typical for a player who enters a highly competitive market and wants to set his goal and see the opportunity to win this market through more intensive advertising and a better offer in terms of price.
$16 for advertising, $50 for personal sales, $10 for advertising.
This is the sale of goods or services on a highly competitive market at the final stage of market life, provided that the consumer's opinion is important for us as consumers.
We are guided by the opinion of the seller when purchasing goods of long-term demand, when purchasing goods that are important to us, but we are not guided by them, we are not experts.
$16 for the price and high costs, $50 for personal sales and $50,000 for advertising.
This is a characteristic point for a highly competitive market where personal sales and the popularity of the product are important for the consumer.
Let's consider the extreme point of $24 for the price, $50,000 for advertising and $50,000 for personal sales.
This is a growing market, we can set high prices where demand is high and growing, but at the same time consumers are still poorly oriented in the product and it is necessary to conduct an information campaign.
You are interested in when you can use a point with minimal loss.
High price, low cost of advertising.
This is a situation when you are an innovator on the market, when you have practically no competitors, and the product is in demand.
That is, you are very much in the needs of consumers, you did not have to form them.
If you look at the modern marketing complex, it has not changed much, but has expanded.
In particular, additional elements have now appeared that you need to consider in your market proposal.
Of course, the marketing complex could not remain without the attention of Philip Kotler.
In particular, he added two points here.
This is politics.
Politics can significantly affect your sales, you should consider it when forming a marketing complex.
For example, if American companies plan to enter the market of Arab countries, where the attitude to the US policy is extremely negative, they will have to look for local partners, change brands, that is, change their marketing complex.
The policy of the state will interfere.
At the same time, the policy of the United States allowed American transnational corporations to enter the Russian market quite easily during the perestroika.
We were actually waiting for them, and they were a breath of freedom for us.
Public opinion.
It can both help and interfere with the company.
New moods and attitudes can appear in society, which affect its interest in certain goods or services.
Society cares about the problems of ecology?
You will have to prove that you share the opinion of society and confirm this with actions.
Society is interested in the problems of sexual minorities?
Well, you will have to join this opinion and demonstrate that you are an excellent employer for this category of employees.
FedPodcorn adds another point.
Policy.
The confirmation of the company's statement.
Here is the personal ethics of the owners and managers.
How do you treat your employees?
How much money does the chief executive officer allocate to political campaigns and which candidates?
That is, if you supply child food to the market, then you should most likely divide and behave as your customers expect from you.
If the manufacturer, the owner of the company that produces child toys, behaves in an inappropriate way, I am afraid that consumers may turn away from him.
Lars Twede suggests that pace is one of the key elements of the modern marketing complex.
Research has been conducted several times that proves that the speed of our life is seriously changing.
Yes, it depends on the geography where you are.
If you come to Moscow or leave Moscow for the regions, you can feel the difference in the pace of life in two different places.
But everyone agrees on one thing.
The speed of our life has increased, which means that you need to take this into account.
That is, be closer to the consumer geographically, respond to his requests faster, allow him to spend less time on the acquisition that he needs.
And online trading often allows you to be more competitive precisely because of the speed.
I can order the goods and services I need without leaving my desk.
Seth Godin adds four more new P's.
1. Voluntary.
The art of communicating with people who want to be interacted with.
For this, personal and relevant messages should be used.
That is, first of all, you should gain trust and appreciate the trust of people who agreed to receive advertising messages from you.
And it means that these advertising messages should be necessary for them and you should be honest with your consumers.
2. Value Voluntary.
Paradigm is a frightening practice of breaking the old rules, the actions of your industry and creating new rules, thanks to which the actions of your competitors are outdated.
Look what's going on. The world is changing.
And we see a number of examples of companies that combine seemingly impossible things.
A vivid example is Apple, which has introduced a number of innovations to the market.
This is the production of mp3 players and the delivery of music at the same time.
This is a modern iPhone, which is essentially a multifunctional device.
This is the policy of promotion of these devices.
Change! Try to re-examine the old stereotypes of the industry, look for innovations.
Pass on the virus marketing.
Recognizing the fact that the only and the best way to improve your business is to help your customers tell others about your products.
Yes, we really trust the opinions of our colleagues.
We trust the experts on the Internet forums.
We trust the consumers who already use these services.
Unfortunately, there are not enough clear technologies that allow to manage or assess the effectiveness of rumors.
Nevertheless, let your customers, satisfied consumers, of course satisfied consumers, tell about your company, about your offer.
At the same time, Seth Godin says that if you could not break the paradigm, there is another PIP  practice.
The idea is that by testing, measuring and changing the product you offer, you can grow and change much more dynamically than your rivals, tied to the old ways of doing business.
Measure and manage your efficiency.
The efficiency of customer service.
Stan Rapp and Chuck Martin add the following.
Address.
Or not quite the correct translation of what they wanted to say.
They claim that the one who is able to better define his target segment, the group on which he needs to focus, will win in the market.
Accountability.
Or the measurability of what you do.
Ask yourself a question.
How easily do you measure the result?
How easily can you manage the process, measure the efficiency of the process that leads to the result?
Why?
Because it is on the basis of the accuracy of the measurement that you can improve.
The ability to implement.
Evaluation.
Have you learned, can you test all your ideas absolutely reliably and select only those that are most likely to be successful?
Availability.
How can you identify people on whom you want to go out and find out what they are ready to wish and able to receive your message?
How do you convey your ideas?
Marketing.
We've talked about how it is big and different.
It is well-developed, but nevertheless there are problems that prevent it from being really effective.
Let's talk about them.
Pay attention to the slide.
Why marketing does not bring the expected result?
Yes, there are many points and they are different.
This is what marketers face every day.
First of all, there is a lack of understanding and support from the owner and the company's first person.
We've talked about the fact that the owner, the manager, is the most important and the main marketer in the company, and all the other people are his assistants.
Lack of competence from the management.
They do not understand what you offer.
They cannot evaluate, they cannot give you the right tasks.
We face situations when marketers are hired by the company and they offer to come up with what they will do.
You cannot hire a person without understanding what functions he will perform and what result he can bring to the company.
The number of marketers in the company is extremely small.
Pay attention to the slide with the statistics of the ratio of the number of staff in the company and marketing in the West.
And we have 1-2, but the volume of tasks is often no less.
They just can't cope, causing negative attitude to marketing.
You can continue this list.
These are the problems we face every day.
Learn to see them, learn to correct them.
Try to avoid the reports of the researches that come to your company to be a dead weight.
It is important to make decisions based on the results of this analysis.
If we talk about the problem of orientation to the market,
then first of all, you need to teach the employees what is the essence of the orientation to the market.
If you cannot convey the understanding of client-orientedness to your colleagues,
I'm afraid that you won't be able to convince me as a consumer.
First of all, focus on your colleagues.
Second, most of the employees don't know how their responsibilities and functions affect the client-orientedness of the company.
Most of the functions don't understand the importance of others and, first of all, don't understand the importance of marketing in the company.
I've heard the following statement many times,
that marketing is a department that is directed either to the criminals or to their relatives.
Accordingly, your ideas will not be supported in the company as long as there is such an opinion.
Accordingly, one of the tasks of marketing is internal marketing,
internal marketing of the consumer's value.
Before we start discussing competitiveness, let's define what a strategy is.
Because it is within the framework of the company's strategy that we manage competitiveness.
It is in this context that it is important to us.
What is a strategy? You will consider in more detail a little later.
Therefore, I will allow only some brief moments.
In the words of Michael Porter,
a strategy is a unique value proposition for the clients that the company creates.
It is a chain of creating value,
clear compromises and determining what the company will not do.
These actions are combined with each other and mutually enhance the effect of constant positioning.
Please note that the strategy is aimed at creating distinctive features of the company in the minds of consumers.
Moreover, for these abilities, they must be ready to pay their money.
So far, the theory is based on only one thing,
that the word competition came from the Latin word to face.
In the classical sense, competition is an economic process of interaction,
communication and struggle between enterprises in the market
in order to ensure the best possible sales of their products,
satisfying the various needs of the buyer.
Please note that the understanding of the strategy and competition are intermittently connected.
Let's go a little into the history of the concept of competition.
Engels gave a very interesting definition of competition.
Competition is the most complete expression of the war of all against all in modern civil society.
At the same time, Marx says that competition is different.
The first type of competition is between entrepreneurs
who produce the same goods for the best conditions of production and sales,
for the gain of super profits.
The second type of competition is between entrepreneurs
who are busy in various industries due to the profitable application of capital for redistribution of profits.
Please note that Marx divides the types of competition,
and this is an extremely important point, which we will discuss a little later.
If we talk about competitiveness as a derivative of competition,
then it is the property of objects that characterizes the degree of satisfaction of a particular need
compared to the best similar objects presented in this market.
This definition was given by our compatriot Mr. Foskudinov.
At the same time, if we look at the Western formulations,
then competitiveness is the ability of a country or a company to sell its goods.
There are many definitions.
How do we figure out what competitiveness is?
Let's first of all focus on the most pleasant and practical definition
formulated by the European Forum on Management Problems.
So, competitiveness is the real or potential ability of companies
to design, manufacture and sell goods
that are more attractive to the consumer than the goods of their competitors.
Please note that this definition is applied not only at the present moment, but also in the future.
Competitors differ in level.
Why did we come across different definitions?
The country, the company, everything is correct.
Here, Marx was right and defined a certain situation.
He gave a more precise definition of competition and competitiveness.
Please note that competition is divided into levels.
The micro-level is the competition of goods or the competition of companies.
The definitions for each type of competition will be different.
The macro-level is the competition of the state and the region.
Competitiveness depends on the properties of the goods of the states and regions.
Competition between regions is very interesting.
For example, it is believed that Japan's success in microelectronics lies in the deep historical past,
in the ability of the Japanese to miniaturize.
Or another option is the competitiveness of China as a fairly efficient manufacturer.
Moreover, the Russian company that produces snacks took measurements
and came across an interesting fact.
Russian workers perform operations three times slower than Chinese.
And there is nothing you can do about it.
It is a historical ability to compete.
And, as a rule, your strategy should be based on the existing competitiveness of the company, state and region.
If we talk about the key factors of success,
which are the ones we are guided by,
which are the ones we evaluate the competitiveness of your goods or companies,
then the University of Sheffield has conducted a study and formulated the following factors of success.
Please note the following slide.
These are the price, quality, care for customers and services,
feedback to consumers, delivery and availability,
variety of products and new products and services.
Please note that in this case there is no orange.
These are the key factors of success in general.
In one of the markets, the price is decisive,
and in another, new products and services are the main ability of the company
to meet the needs of the customer better than others.
Think about it.
What are the key factors of success in your industry,
which we should measure and evaluate first?
What do you do better than your competitors?
In Russia, there was a study on the evaluation of competitiveness
and the attitude to the competition of our enterprises.
Please note the following slide.
You can see the graph on it,
which reflects the level of indifference of enterprises to the factors of competition.
The higher the value, the less attention is paid to this factor.
It is disappointing that the patent-based know-how
has fallen out of the sphere of our enterprises' attention.
But at the same time, they are focused on the level of quality of the product
and blame their failures or achievements for the change in the price of raw materials
and energy.
They fight for the quality of the product.
When the best companies in the world manage not only the quality of the product,
but also the life expectancy,
they already care about other components,
and quality is not a determining factor of competition.
I think we should reconsider the main points of competitiveness of our enterprises
and focus on the ability to earn in the future.
After all, it is your patents and innovations that provide you with future income.
The level of quality is a result of the past,
which does not reflect your ability to meet the needs of customers in the future.
In particular, the results of the study show
the main factors that influenced competitiveness in 2005-2006.
According to the entrepreneurs,
the level of quality of the product
allowed to satisfy the needs of the customer,
to establish a connection with the customers,
and the factors related to the change in the price of raw materials and energy
and transport tariffs influenced negatively.
Accordingly, enterprises are used to
focus on competitiveness provided by the state or the region.
This means that they are dependent on the change of these factors
and can lose the market for these reasons.
For reasons they do not control.
At the same time, the indicators of the presence of competitive advantage
are, first of all, market leadership or market segment.
If consumers choose you,
it means that you have something that allows you to satisfy the needs of customers
much better than others.
The sign of competitive advantage and the main indicator is the growing share of the market.
If the sales rates of your company are ahead of the growth rates of competitors,
it means that you attract more and more consumers
due to the higher competitiveness.
At the same time, if you strive to maximize profits,
you can focus on higher profits compared to other companies.
That is, you do not win by growth, but by increased profits compared to competitors.
A stronger brand, more loyal consumers,
the degree of retention of consumers
is also an indicator of the competitiveness of your offer to your company on the market.
In particular, there are a number of approaches to calculate the competitiveness of a product.
At the moment, the approaches related to the economy are leading.
It is the economic motives.
Let's consider a way to calculate competitiveness based on a number of characteristics, a number of signs.
Pay attention to the slide.
First of all, we calculate the group indicator of competitiveness by normative parameters.
Normative parameters or standards are the requirements for the product.
In this case, we assign a sign 0 or 1,
depending on whether this characteristic is present or not.
Accordingly, the group indicator of competitiveness by normative parameters is the share of a unit.
It cannot exceed a unit.
The share of a unit characterizes the presence of a certain mandatory sign.
Let's also calculate the group indicator of competitiveness by normative parameters, which we will need.
In this case, we take into account not only the relationship of the characteristics of your offer to the ideal,
in comparison with which we compare ourselves,
but also the weight of this characteristic in the final indicator.
That is, not all characteristics of the product are equally important for the consumer,
and accordingly we must correct.
In this case, we multiply the specific indicator of competitiveness by technical goods
by the weight of this parameter in the total set of all technical parameters.
As a result, we get a value that fluctuates around a unit.
That is, it can be more or less than a unit.
To calculate the integral indicator of competitiveness,
we also need the relationship of your product to the sample,
with which we compare ourselves, in terms of costs.
In this case, this is a group indicator in terms of economic parameters.
Under the cost, we understand all the costs of the consumer,
which are associated with the purchase of your product or service.
Here can be not only costs, but also the cost of ownership,
the cost of retraining staff, the cost of changing the infrastructure of the enterprise,
if this is production equipment associated with the replacement of equipment.
As a result, we can calculate the integral indicator of the competitiveness of the product.
Pay attention to the formula, which is shown on the slide.
This is the ratio of competitiveness by normative parameters,
multiplied by competitiveness by technical parameters,
and divided by competitiveness by economic parameters.
That is, this integral indicator reflects the difference between
comparing the product in the consumer effect,
and the consumer cost per unit of the consumer,
when purchasing and consuming the product.
You can find more detailed information in the methodological task,
and calculate this indicator for your products or services.
At the same time, one of the first approaches,
which allowed to measure the competitiveness of businesses,
was the matrix of the Boston Consulting Group.
Pay attention to the slide.
This matrix will be studied within the framework of strategic planning.
But I dare to remind you that it appeared in the early 70s,
when American companies had to evaluate the competitiveness of their businesses
and leave those that have a high competitiveness
and are able to ensure the survival of the corporation.
This matrix is based on the effect of experience and scale.
The cheaper the product you can produce due to these effects,
the more competitive it is, and on growth rates,
that is, in the opinion of consumers.
A similar matrix, McKinsey General Electric,
appeared in the same 70s.
But its difference from the matrix of the Boston Consulting Group
is that it can use soft criteria, soft assessments,
and a set of criteria is practically unlimited
to assess the competitiveness of the product.
Pay attention to the slide.
In this case, two axes are also used.
The first is the strong sides of the business,
its competitiveness,
the client's view of the business,
that is, why should I buy a product from this company,
and the market attractiveness of a particular segment or business for the owners.
You can see this matrix in more detail in the course of our program.
There are quite a few models.
In particular, it is worth referring to the little-known,
but in my opinion, an interesting model,
the Fishbane model.
The Fishbane model is one of the models of assessing the competitiveness of the product.
I talk about such models quite a lot,
and you can find their description in various literature.
The Fishbane model, in my opinion, is one of the most interesting,
because it actually reflects,
or is a mathematical expression of the behavior of the consumer.
In addition to the importance of a particular criterion for the client,
differentiation is also calculated,
and the importance is actually as a determination of this criterion.
Namely, the parameters by which the offer of your product is most strongly different are enhanced.
I will give an example that allows you to evaluate this model.
If you choose a mortgage loan,
then most likely one of the first and most important characteristics that you will name
is the interest rate on the loan.
The second parameter is the speed of decision-making on the loan.
And the third parameter, for example,
is the distance to the bank branch from your new home.
Accordingly, if the banks were primarily oriented towards interest rates,
then we would face the fact that they are almost all the same.
And accordingly, such parameters as the interest rate and the speed of decision-making
are not decisive or important for the consumer.
All banks offer approximately the same thing.
But the most important factor for the consumer would be the distance to the bank branch.
Why? Because he takes a loan once, and he will have to pay the rest of the 15 years.
This model allows you to identify such behavioral characteristics.
Let's take a closer look at one of the ways to compare your competitiveness
and manage business efficiency as a benchmark.
Generally speaking, you need to constantly assess the competitiveness of these goods
at this particular moment, the competitiveness of the processes.
Benchmarking is a comparative marketing,
a comparative analysis of your companies, your business processes,
and the processes of your competitors, as well as the best representatives from other industries.
Please note that it is important for you to take into account
not only the current characteristics of the goods or services,
but also their changes over time.
Perhaps, the competitor that is currently losing to you in terms of characteristics
is developing more dynamically and at some point will win the market.
Benchmarking has also undergone a certain evolution.
It all started with the assessment, even with qualitative financial assessments,
of various businesses.
What is the profit? What is the turnover?
Please note that this idea existed until the 1960s.
Then they began to assess the efficiency.
There were such indicators as ROI, return on investment, and its production.
We talked about the fact that the strategy of the enterprise
that achieves results with less resources is more effective.
In 1983, Xerox began to benchmark based on processes.
That is, it is equal to the best representatives of its branch and other industries
for improving processes.
It was Xerox that became the pioneer of the approach that is used today.
Benchmarking is a comparison of the practice and characteristics of an organization
with the practice and indicators of other organizations
in order to find ways to improve their activities.
The main idea of benchmarking is to consciously go beyond the limits of your market,
beyond the limits of your industry.
Because by comparing to the best of your industry,
you can become the same if you reach the limits.
Going beyond the limits of the industry, looking wider,
you can become the best of your industry.
Therefore, comparing to your industry is not all.
Assess the best of similar processes, similar operations,
and think about how to transfer it to your business.
Resultiveness is the production of the right output product.
Effectiveness is the production of the right output product with minimal costs.
It is important to understand that you should not only achieve results,
but also spend as little effort as possible.
It is important to understand that you cannot be effective
if you do not achieve the overall result.
Benchmarking has different types.
The internal one is a comparison of similar processes within the organization.
Here you can also find ways to improve.
In Western companies, there are even people who are not engaged in anything.
They just travel around the regions and watch how different departments
perform the same processes.
They find deviations in the best direction and try to replicate them throughout the company.
Competitive is a comparison of the strongest of direct competitors.
Functional is a comparison of company methods with similar processes
related to the same function outside the industry
in which your company operates.
Process is a comparison of working processes with innovative,
worthy of increased attention,
working processes of other companies.
For example, to compare processes and to pay attention to the table on the slide,
you can use a certain matrix.
We look at the market, what clients ask for.
Process is a process of solving problems.
From what has been done, we look at how we satisfied the client,
but it is also important to have quality criteria,
for example, the percentage of repeated purchases.
By highlighting such processes, we highlight, first of all,
what we measure, how we measure, and try to understand
what we can improve in our company.
AXE-Rex conducts regular analysis of business processes up to now.
But in order to make this task regular,
it is necessary to formalize the list of processes used for analysis.
In AXE-Rex, everything starts with market management or marketing,
which we are talking about.
In the second place, the most important thing for them is to treat the client.
The rest of the processes are typical for this company,
you can see on the slide.
Most often, processes are studied related to the service of the client,
the efficiency of the use of information technologies,
the development and training of the staff,
how important are the competitiveness components,
which are aimed at earning money in the future,
the improvement of management processes,
the costs for managing the company,
the work of call centers and other ways of feedback with consumers,
the assessment of the efficiency of the work of various departments,
the assessment of the costs for attracting and attracting staff,
the functions of production, staff management and project management.
If we look at benchmarking as a process,
then, first of all, you need to determine the process intended for comparison,
that is, for benchmarking,
where we will look for the best partners,
by which process.
The second step is to determine the partners,
that is, who we compare with.
The third step is to collect information,
measure the efficiency of our partner's processes,
collect information on how he performs the process.
The fourth step is to measure the gap,
that is, how far we are behind.
The fifth step is to prescribe future characteristics,
that is, what we should achieve as a result of the change of our company.
We set operational tasks,
namely, the cycle of response time,
the maximum acceptable level of errors for our process,
the total consumption of resources within the process of change, and so on.
It is important not to miss such a stage as training staff
to a new way of performing this process.
Of course, the eighth step is monitoring of the results
of these changes and this process.
But here the cycle closes
and the process must be tested on a regular basis.
If we look at the object-oriented approach of DEC,
it consists of four stages.
Pay attention to the slide.
They also determine what is subject to benchmarking.
At the second stage, they determine,
based on what they will compare,
how they will perform the benchmarking.
At the third stage, they identify the best,
in principle, the best on the market,
who perform this process.
And then they try to understand how this enterprise,
better than others,
achieves these results.
For benchmarking,
both internal data of the company itself
and external data are used,
which they are trying to collect.
It is important to understand the basic principles of benchmarking.
You will ask, who will provide us with information,
who will want to let us work on their production.
It's very simple.
Benchmarking can be mutual.
This is one of the basic principles.
That is, by giving the opportunity to compare with someone,
you can ask for a response.
Of course, it is unlikely to talk about your strongest competitor,
or even the worst competitor, as they say sometimes.
But it is possible to cooperate with enterprises from other industries,
where you are not direct competitors.
This cooperation, based on mutuality,
allows you to achieve excellent results together.
The second principle is analogies.
Make analogies with other industries.
Show your imagination.
Look for what your competitors have not seen yet.
The third principle is measurability.
How can you manage efficiency without measuring?
You should always have key indicators
on which you make comparisons.
The fourth principle is reliability.
Recheck.
Recheck what is really so.
Unfortunately, in professional literature,
in magazines, often the materials are not real,
but the materials are in the form of PR.
When you face real processes in companies,
they are far from what is described in glossy magazines.